Payload Passthru Mode [WIP] (#417)
wamp-proto/wamp-proto: rfc/text/advanced/ap_50_payload_passthru_mode.md

        INVOCATION.Details.ppt_cipher|string
        INVOCATION.Details.ppt_keyid|string
        ---
        YIELD.Options.ppt_scheme|string
        YIELD.Options.ppt_serializer|string
        YIELD.Options.ppt_cipher|string
        YIELD.Options.ppt_keyid|string
        ---
        RESULT.Details.ppt_scheme|string
        RESULT.Details.ppt_serializer|string
        RESULT.Details.ppt_cipher|string
        RESULT.Details.ppt_keyid|string
        ---
        ERROR.Details.ppt_scheme|string
        ERROR.Details.ppt_serializer|string
        ERROR.Details.ppt_cipher|string
        ERROR.Details.ppt_keyid|string

{align="left"}
        PUBLISH.Options.ppt_scheme|string
        PUBLISH.Options.ppt_serializer|string
        PUBLISH.Options.ppt_cipher|string
        PUBLISH.Options.ppt_keyid|string
        ---
        EVENT.Details.ppt_scheme|string
        EVENT.Details.ppt_serializer|string
        EVENT.Details.ppt_cipher|string
        EVENT.Details.ppt_keyid|string
        ---
        ERROR.Options.ppt_scheme|string
        ERROR.Options.ppt_serializer|string
        ERROR.Options.ppt_cipher|string
        ERROR.Options.ppt_keyid|string

**ppt_scheme attribute**

> `ppt_scheme` stands for Key Management Schema. It is required string attribute. This attribute can contain name or

Reviewer: What is payload passthru mode is desired in a situation that doesn't involve encryption?

identifier of key management provider which is known to target peer, so it can be used to obtain information
about encryption keys. *Router* understands that `Payload Passthru Mode` is in use
by checking the existence and non-empty value of this attribute in `CALL`, `PUBLISH` and `YIELD` messages options.

**ppt_serializer attribute**

`ppt_serializer` attribute is optional. It specifies what serializer was used to build up payload object.

> It can be `mqtt`, `amqp`, `stomp` value just to inform that coming data is from related technologies or ordinary 

Reviewer: I don't think it's a good idea for the same attribute to be "overloaded" with two different meanings. Perhaps there should be a separate attribute for things such as `mqtt`, `amqp`, `stomp`, etc.

> It can be `mqtt`, `amqp`, `stomp` value just to inform that coming data is from related technologies or ordinary 

Author: Well, maybe... But i think it is a rare case anyway... 
We can think and discuss it...

`json`, `msgpack`, `cbor`, `flatbuffers` data serializers.

**ppt_cipher attribute**

> `ppt_cipher` attribute is optional. It is required if payload is encrypted. This attribute specifies cryptographic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ppt_cipher` attribute is optional. It is required if the payload is encrypted. This attribute specifies the cryptographic
```

> algorithm that was used to encrypt payload. It can be `xsalsa20poly1305`, `aes256gcm` for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
algorithm that was used to encrypt the payload. It can be `xsalsa20poly1305`, `aes256gcm` for now.
```

**ppt_keyid attribute**

> `ppt_keyid` attribute is optional. This attribute can contain encryption key id that was used to encrypt payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ppt_keyid` attribute is optional. This attribute can contain the encryption key id that was used to encrypt the payload.
```

> `ppt_keyid` attribute is always a type of string. The value can be a hex-encoded string, uri, DNS name, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ppt_keyid` attribute is a string type. The value can be a hex-encoded string, URI, DNS name, 
```

> Ethereum address, UUID identifier - any meaningful value by which target peer can choose private key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethereum address, UUID identifier - any meaningful value which allows the target peer to a choose private key 
```

> without guessing. Format of the value may depend on `ppt_scheme` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without guessing. The format of the value may depend on the `ppt_scheme` attribute.
```

> **ppt_ predefined schemes**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**ppt_ Predefined Schemes**
```

> | Attribute      | Required? | Predefined Scheme (mqtt)  | Predefined Scheme (End-to-End Encryption) | Custom Scheme Example |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Attribute      | Required? | Predefined Scheme (MQTT)  | Predefined Scheme (End-to-End Encryption) | Custom Scheme Example |
```

|----------------|-----------|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------|

> | ppt_scheme     | Y         | mqtt                      | wamp.eth                                  | x_my_ppt              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ppt_scheme     | Y         | MQTT                      | wamp.eth                                  | x_my_ppt              |
```

Author: The same here: we specify values in lowercase

> | ppt_serializer | N         | json, msgpack, cbor, mqtt | cbor, flatbuffers                         | custom                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ppt_serializer | N         | JSON, Msgpack, CBOR, MQTT | cbor, flatbuffers                         | custom                |
```

Author: I think about skipping this, as it shows a value that we use. And under a hidden agreement the values are lowercase

Reviewer: Sorry, I thought you were naming those technologies. I see now that they are identifiers, so yes lowercase.

| ppt_cipher     | N         | -                         | xsalsa20poly1305, aes256gcm               | custom                |
| ppt_keyid      | N         | -                         | *                                         | custom                |

> *: Least significant 20 bytes (160 bits) of SHA256 of public key (32 bytes) of data encryption key as HEX encoded 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*: The least significant 20 bytes (160 bits) of the SHA256 of the public key (32 bytes) of the data encryption key, as a hex-encoded 
```

> string with prefix `0x`, and upper/lower case letters encoding a checksum according to EIP55.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
string with prefix `0x` and either uppercase/lowercase alphabetic characters, encoding a checksum according to EIP55.
```

> **Message structure**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Message Structure**
```

> With `Payload Passthru Mode` in use message payload MUST BE sent as one binary item inside 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `Payload Passthru Mode` is in use, the message payload MUST be sent as one binary item within 
```

> `Arguments|list`, while `ArgumentsKw|dict` MUST BE missing or empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Arguments|list`, while `ArgumentsKw|dict` MUST be absent or empty.
```

*Example.* Caller-to-Dealer `CALL` with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        48,
        25471,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "cbor",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evIWpKGQAPdOh0="
        },
        "com.myapp.secret_rpc_for_sensitive_data",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Caller-to-Dealer progressive `CALL` with encryption and key ID.

> Nothing prevents to use `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features, for example `Progressive Calls`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that nothing prevents the use of `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features such as, for example, `Progressive Calls`
```

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        48,
        25471,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "flatbuffers",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evIWpKGQAPdOh0=",
            "progress": true
        },
        "com.myapp.progressive_rpc_for_sensitive_data",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

> *Example.* Caller-to-Dealer `CALL` with mqtt payload. Specifying `"ppt_serializer": "mqtt"` means, that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example.* Caller-to-Dealer `CALL` with MQTT payload. Specifying `"ppt_serializer": "mqtt"` means that 
```

> original mqtt message payload is passed as WAMP payload message without any transcoding, as is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the original mqtt message payload is passed as a WAMP payload message as is, without any transcoding.
```

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        48,
        25471,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "mqtt",
            "ppt_serializer": "mqtt"
        },
        "com.myapp.mqtt_processing",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

> *Example.* Caller-to-Dealer `CALL` with mqtt payload. Specifying `"ppt_scheme": "mqtt"` simply indicates, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example.* Caller-to-Dealer `CALL` with MQTT payload. Specifying `"ppt_scheme": "mqtt"` simply indicates that
```

> original source of payload data is received from related system. Specifying `"ppt_serializer": "json"` means, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the original source of payload data is received from a related system. Specifying `"ppt_serializer": "json"` means that
```

> original mqtt message payload was parsed and encoded with `json` serializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the original MQTT message payload was parsed and encoded with the `json` serializer.
```

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        48,
        25471,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "mqtt",
            "ppt_serializer": "json"
        },
        "com.myapp.mqtt_processing",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Dealer-to-Callee `INVOCATION` with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        68,
        35477,
        1147,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "cbor",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evIWpKGQAPdOh0="
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

> *Example.* Dealer-to-Callee `INVOCATION` with mqtt payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example.* Dealer-to-Callee `INVOCATION` with MQTT payload
```

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        68,
        35479,
        3344,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "mqtt",
            "ppt_serializer": "mqtt"
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Callee-to-Dealer `YIELD` with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        70,
        87683,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "flatbuffers",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1="
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Callee-to-Dealer progressive `YIELD` with encryption and key ID

> Nothing prevents to use `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features, for example `Progressive Call Results`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nothing prevents the use of `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features such as, for example, `Progressive Call Results`
```

Reviewer: This is sentence is repeated multiple times through the examples. It should be consolidated in one place.

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        70,
        87683,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "flatbuffers",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1=",
            "progress": true
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Dealer-to-Caller `RESULT` with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        50,
        77133,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "flatbuffers",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1="
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Dealer-to-Caller progressive `RESULT` with encryption and key ID

> Nothing prevents to use `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features, for example `Progressive Call Results`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nothing prevents the use of `Payload Passthru Mode` with other features such as, for example, `Progressive Call Results`.
```

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        8,
        68,
        87683,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "cbor",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1="
        },
        "com.myapp.invalid_revenue_year",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Publishing event to a topic with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        16,
        45677,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "cbor",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1="
        },
        "com.myapp.mytopic1",
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

*Example.* Receiving event for a topic with encryption and key ID

{align="left"}
```json
    [
        36,
        5512315355,
        4429313566,
        {
            "ppt_scheme": "wamp.eth",
            "ppt_serializer": "flatbuffers",
            "ppt_cipher": "xsalsa20poly1305",
            "ppt_keyid": "GTtQ37XGJO2O4R8Dvx4AUo8pe61D9evNSpGMDQWdOh1="
        },
        [Payload|binary]
    ]
```

> **About supported serializers and cryptographic ciphers**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**About Supported Serializers and Cryptographic Ciphers**
```

> WAMP works as infrastructure for delivering messages between peers. Regardless of what encryption algorithm 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WAMP serves as infrastructure for delivering messages between peers. Regardless of what encryption algorithm 
```

> and serializer were chosen for `Payload Passthru Mode`, *Router* will not inspect and analyze related encryption 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and serializer were chosen for `Payload Passthru Mode`, a *Router* shall not inspect and analyze the `ppt_` options and payload
```

> message options and payload. It is up to an application side code responsibility to use serializers and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of encypted messages. The application is responsible for choosing serializers and 
```

> ciphers known to every peer involved into message processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ciphers known to every peer involved in message processing.
```

messages.

**ppt_serializer Attribute**

The `ppt_serializer` attribute is optional. It specifies what serializer was used to encode the payload.
It can be a value a such as `mqtt`, `amqp`, `stomp` to indicate that the incoming data is tunneling through such 
technologies, or it can be ordinary `json`, `msgpack`, `cbor`, `flatbuffers` data serializers.

**ppt_cipher Attribute**

The `ppt_cipher` attribute is optional. It is required if the payload is encrypted. This attribute specifies the 
cryptographic algorithm that was used to encrypt the payload. It can be `xsalsa20poly1305`, `aes256gcm` for now.

**ppt_keyid Attribute**

The `ppt_keyid` attribute is optional. This attribute can contain the encryption key id that was used to encrypt 
the payload. The `ppt_keyid` attribute is a string type. The value can be a hex-encoded string, URI, DNS name, 
Ethereum address, UUID identifier - any meaningful value which allows the target peer to choose a private key 
without guessing. The format of the value may depend on the `ppt_scheme` attribute.

**ppt_ Predefined Schemes**

> | Attribute      | Required? | Predefined Scheme (MQTT)    | Predefined Scheme (End-to-End Encryption) | Custom Scheme Example |

Reviewer: It's not clear if MQTT and EtoE are just examples or are mandated by the WAMP spec.

Reviewer: This would be best split into separate tables to fit the page width in RFC text format.

|----------------|-----------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| ppt_scheme     | Y         | mqtt                        | wamp.eth                                  | x_my_ppt              |
| ppt_serializer | N         | json, msgpack, cbor, native | cbor, flatbuffers                         | custom                |
| ppt_cipher     | N         | -                           | xsalsa20poly1305, aes256gcm               | custom                |
| ppt_keyid      | N         | -                           | *                                         | custom                |

*: The least significant 20 bytes (160 bits) of the SHA256 of the public key (32 bytes) of the data encryption key, 
as a hex-encoded string with prefix `0x` and either uppercase/lowercase alphabetic characters, encoding a 
checksum according to EIP55.

> When `Payload Passthru Mode` is used for gateways to other technologies like MQTT Brokers or AMQP Queues and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `Payload Passthru Mode` is used for gateways to other technologies, such as MQTT Brokers or AMQP Queues, then
```

> the `ppt_serializer` attribute may be set to `native` value. This means that payload is not touched by WAMP peers, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `ppt_serializer` attribute may be set to the `native` value. This means that the payload is not to be modified by WAMP peers, 
```

> not serialized in any manner and is delivered as is from the originator peer. Another possible case is when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nor serialized in any manner, and is delivered as-is from the originating peer. Another possible case is when
```

> the `ppt_serializer` attribute is set to any valid serializer, for example `msgpack`. In this case WAMP originator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `ppt_serializer` attribute is set to any valid serializer, for example `msgpack`. In this case, the originating WAMP
```

> client peer first applies `ppt_serializer` to serialize payload (without encryption), then the resulting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client peer first applies `ppt_serializer` to serialize the payload (without encryption), then the resulting
```

> binary payload is embedded in a WAMP message, which might use different serializer that was chosen during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binary payload is embedded in the WAMP message, the latter having possibly a different serializer depending on the one chosen during
```

WAMP Session establishment.

> **Important note regarding JSON serializer**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important Note Regarding JSON Serialization**
```

> With `Payload Passthru Mode` payloads are treated as binaries. To send binaries WAMP session serializer MUST

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `Payload Passthru Mode`, payloads are treated as binary. To send these binary payloads, the WAMP session serializer MUST
```

> support binary types. Most of the serializers support binary types, but JSON serializer does not. To use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support byte arrays. Most serialization formats known to WAMP support byte arrays, but JSON does not support them natively. To use
```

> `Payload Passthru Mode` with JSON serializer WAMP peers MUST support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Payload Passthru Mode` with a JSON serializer, WAMP peers MUST perform the special
```

> [Binary serialization in JSON](#binary-support-in-json). This come with huge overhead, so general advice is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Binary serialization in JSON](#binary-support-in-json). This conversion may have unacceptable overhead, so it is generally advised
```

> to use WAMP session serializers with native binary support, for example `MessagePack`, `CBOR`, `FlatBuffers`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use WAMP session serializers with native byte array support, for example, `MessagePack`, `CBOR`, or `FlatBuffers`.
```
